+++
title="Ring Theory Exam"
date=2008-11-01
+++

## 2008 November {#sec:Nov2008}

*All rings are unitary, i.e. have an identity.*

List the ideals of the rings:

$\Z/12\Z$ $M_2(\R)$ (the ring of $2\times 2$ real matrices)
$\Z/12\Z \times M_2(\R)$.

An ideal is, in particular, a subgroup of the additive group. Since
$\langle \Z_{12}; +, 0\rangle$ is cyclic, all subgroups are cyclic.
Thus, the subgroups of $\langle \Z_{12}; +, 0\rangle$ are as follows:

-   $(0) = \{0\}$

-   $(1) = \{0, 1, \dots, 11\}$

-   $(2) = \{0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10\}$

-   $(3) = \{0, 3, 6, 9\}$

-   $(4) = \{0, 4, 8\}$

-   $(6) = \{0, 6\}$

Of course, 5, 7, and 11 are relatively prime to 12, so
$(1) = (5) = (7) = (11) = \Z_{12}$. The remaining generators, 8, 4, and
9, are also redundant: $(8) = (4)$, $(9) = (3)$, and $(10)=(2)$. It is
easy to verify that each of the 6 distinct subgroups listed above—call
them $\{G_i : 1\leq i\leq 6\}$—have the property that, if $r\in \Z_{12}$
and $a\in G_i,$ then $r a \in G_i$. Thus, each $G_i,$ $1\leq i \leq 6,$
is an ideal of $\Z_{12}$.

(Remark: This also shows $\Z_{12}$ is a PID, hence the proper prime
ideals are the maximal ideals, $(2)$ and $(3)$.)

By the following lemma, since $\R$ is a field (and thus has no
non-trivial proper ideals), the only ideals of $M_2(\R)$ are $M_2(0)$
and $M_2(\R)$.

Let $R$ be a commutative ring with $1_R \neq 0$. Then the ideals of
$M_2(R)$ are precisely the subsets $M_2(J)\subseteq M_2(R)$, where $J$
is an ideal of $R$.

Suppose $J$ is an ideal and $A_1, A_2 \in M_2(J)$. Then $A_1-A_2$ has
all elements in $J$, since $J$ is, in particular, a subgroup. Therefore
$M_2(J)$ is a subgroup of $\langle M_2(R); +, \mathbf{0}\rangle$. If
$M = (m_{ij}) \in M_2(R)$ and $A = (a_{ij}) \in M_2(J)$, then
$MA = (\sum_{k=1}^2 m_{ik}a_{kj})$. Clearly, all the elements of $MA$
are in $J,$ since $J$ is an ideal and $a_{ij}\in J$. Similarly, all the
elements of $AM$ are in $J$. This proves that $M_2(J)$ is an ideal of
$M_2(R)$ whenever $J$ is an ideal of $R$.

Now, let $\mathscr{I} \subseteq M_2(R)$ be an ideal of $M_2(R)$, and let
$J$ be the set of all $a\in R$ such that $a$ is an element of some
$A\in \mathscr{I}$. Clearly $0\in J,$ since $A\in \mathscr{I}$ implies
$\mathbf{0} = A - A \in \mathscr{I}$. Let $a, b \in J$. Suppose $a$ is
the $ij^{th}$ entry of $A\in \mathscr{I}$ and $b$ is the $kl^{th}$ entry
of $B\in
          \mathscr{I}$. Let $M_{ij}$ be a matrix with 1 in the $ij^{th}$
position and 0 elsewhere. Then
$M_{1i}AM_{j1} = \begin{pmatrix}a & 0\\0&0\end{pmatrix} \in \mathscr{I}$
and
$M_{1k}BM_{l1} = \begin{pmatrix}b & 0\\0&0\end{pmatrix} \in \mathscr{I}$.
Therefore, $\begin{pmatrix}a-b & 0\\0&0\end{pmatrix}\in \mathscr{I}$, so
$a-b\in J$, whence, $J$ is a subgroup. Fix $r\in R$. Then
$\begin{pmatrix}r&0\\0&0\end{pmatrix}\begin{pmatrix}a&0\\0&0\end{pmatrix} =
          \begin{pmatrix}ra&0\\0&0\end{pmatrix} \in \mathscr{I}$, so
$ra \in J$, and $J$ is an ideal.

By the following lemma, and parts [**a.**]{} and [**b.**]{}, the ideals
of $\Z/12\Z \times M_2(\R)$ are all sets of the form $I \times J$, where
$I\in \{(0), (1), (2), (3), (4), (6)\}$ and $J \in \{M_2(0), M_2(\R)\}$.

Let $R$ and $R'$ rings. Then the ideals of $R\times R'$ have the form
$I\times J$, where $I$ is an ideal of $R$ and $J$ is an ideal of $R'$.

Let $A \subseteq R\times R'$ be an ideal. we will show

1.  \[it:1\] $A = A_1\times A_2,$ for some $A_1\subseteq R$ and
    $A_2\subseteq R',$ and

2.  \[it:2\] $A_1$ and $A_2$ are ideals of $R$ and $R'$, respectively.

(\[it:1\]) Define
$$A_1 = \{a\in R: (a,a') \in A \text{ for some } a'\in R'\} \quad \text{and} \quad
          A_2 = \{a'\in R': (a,a') \in A \text{ for some } a\in R\}.$$
That is, $A_1$ (resp. $A_2$) is the set of all first (resp. second)
coordinates of elements in $A$. I claim that $A = A_1 \times A_2$.[^1]
Fix $a\in A_1$ and $b'\in A_2$. We show $(a,b')\in A$. Since $a\in A_1,$
there is some $a'\in A_2$ such that $(a,a')\in A$. Similarly,
$(b,b')\in A,$ for some $b\in A_1$. Since $A$ is an ideal,
$(1,0)\cdot(a,a') = (a,0)\in A$, and $(0,1)\cdot(b,b') = (0,b')\in A$.
Therefore, $(a,0) + (0,b') = (a, b') \in A,$ as claimed. This proves
$A_1\times A_2 \subseteq A$. The reverse inclusion is obvious.

(\[it:2\]) Fix $a, b \in A_1$. Then, there exist $a', b' \in A_2$ such
that $(a,a')\in A$ and $(b,b')\in A$. Now, since $A$ is, in particular,
a subgroup of the additive group of $R\times R'$, we have
$(a,a')- (b,b') = (a-b, a'-b')\in A$. Therefore, $a-b \in A_1$, so $A_1$
is a subgroup of $\langle R, +, 0\rangle$. Fix $r\in R$. Then
$(ra,a')= (ra,1a') = (r,1)\cdot(a,a') \in A,$ since $A$ is an ideal of
$R\times R'$. Therefore, $ra\in A_1,$ which proves that $A_1$ is an
ideal of $R$. The same argument, [*mutatis mutandis*]{}, proves that
$A_2$ is an ideal of $R'$. This completes the proof of (ii) and
establishes the lemma.

Let $R$ be a commutative ring and let $A, B,$ and $C$ be $R$-modules
with $A$ a submodule of $B$. Which (if any) of the following conditions
guarantee that the natural map $A \otimes_R C \rightarrow B \otimes_R C$
is injective?

(a) $C$ is free,

(b) $C$ is projective.

I will prove a slightly more general result (as the increased generality
comes at no additional cost). That is, if $\varphi: A \rightarrow B$ is
an $R$-module monomorphism, then, under conditions (a) or (b), the
natural map
$\varphi \otimes 1_C: {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C \rightarrow {\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}C$
in injective. (To answer the question above, take $\varphi$ to be the
inclusion map.)

We begin with the simplest case, where $C = R$.

: If $\varphi: A \rightarrow B$ is an $R$-module monomorphism, then the
natural map
$\varphi \otimes 1_R: {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}R \rightarrow {\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}R$
is injective.

: Define $\alpha_A: {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}R \cong A$ by
$\alpha_A(a\otimes r) = ar$, and
$\alpha_B: {\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}R \cong B$ by
$\alpha_B(b\otimes r) = br$. (See lemma \[lemma-A4\] below for proof
that these are, indeed, isomorphisms.) I claim that the following
diagram of $R$-module homomorphisms is commutative: $$\begin{CD}
      {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}R @>{\alpha_A}>> A \\
      @V{{\ensuremath{\varphi \otimes 1_R}}}VV  @VV{\varphi}V \\
      {\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}R @>{\alpha_B}>> B
    \end{CD}$$ Fix $a\in A$ and $r\in R$. By definition,
$({\ensuremath{\varphi \otimes 1_R}})(a\otimes r) = \varphi(a) \otimes 1_R(r)$.
Therefore,
$(\alpha_B\, ({\ensuremath{\varphi \otimes 1_R}}))(a\otimes r) = \alpha_B(\varphi(a) \otimes r) =
    \varphi(a)r$. Following the diagram in the other direction,
$(\varphi\, \alpha_A)(a\otimes r) = \varphi(ar) = \varphi(a)r,$ since
$\varphi$ is an $R$-module homomorphism. Therefore,
$(\alpha_B\, ({\ensuremath{\varphi \otimes 1_R}}))(a\otimes r) = (\varphi\, \alpha_A)(a\otimes r)$.
Since $a\in A$ and $r\in R$ were chosen arbitrarily,
$\alpha_B\, ({\ensuremath{\varphi \otimes 1_R}})$ and
$\varphi\, \alpha_A$ agree on generators, so the diagram is commutative.

Now $\alpha_A$ is an isomorphism, so $\alpha_A$ and $\varphi$ are both
injective. Therefore, by lemma \[lemma-A1\] (below), $\varphi\,
    \alpha_A$ is injective. Then, by commutativity of the diagram,
$\alpha_B\,({\ensuremath{\varphi \otimes 1_R}})$ is injective. Finally,
lemma \[lemma-A3\] implies that ${\ensuremath{\varphi \otimes 1_R}}$ is
injective, which proves claim 1.

Next, let $C$ be a free $R$-module. Then $C \cong \sum_{i\in I}R,$ for
some index set $I$. For ease of notation, in the sequel, $\sum$ denotes
$\sum_{i\in I}$.

: If $\varphi: A \rightarrow B$ is an $R$-module monomorphism, then the
natural map
$\varphi \otimes 1_{\sum R}: {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}\sum R \rightarrow {\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}\sum R$
is injective.

: Define $\Phi: \sum A \rightarrow \sum B$ by
$\Phi(\{a_i\}) = \{\varphi(a_i)\}$ for each $\{a_i\} \in \sum A$. Then
$\Phi$ is an $R$-module monomorphism. This is seen as follows:
$(\forall \{a_i\}, \{a'_i\} \in \sum A)\;(\forall r\in R)$
$$\Phi(\{a_i\} + \{a'_i\}) = \Phi(\{a_i + a'_i\}) = \{\varphi(a_i + a'_i)\} = \{\varphi(a_i) + \varphi(a'_i)\} = \{\varphi(a_i)\} + \{\varphi(a'_i)\} = \Phi(\{a_i\}) + \Phi(\{a'_i\}),$$
$$\text{ and } \;  \Phi(r\{a_i\} ) =  \Phi(\{ra_i\})=  \{\varphi(ra_i)\} =  \{r\varphi(a_i)\} =  r\{\varphi(a_i)\} =  r\Phi(\{a_i\} ).$$
If $\Phi(\{a_i\} ) = \{0\} \in \sum B,$ then $\{\varphi(a_i)\} = 0,$
which implies $\varphi(a_i) = 0$ for all $i\in I$, and therefore,
$\{a_i\} = 0 \in \sum A$. Thus, $\Phi$ is a monomorphism.

By (the proof of) lemma \[lemma-A4\], the map
$\sigma: \sum A \rightarrow \sum({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}R)$ given by
$\sigma(\{a_i\}) = \{a_i \otimes 1_R\}$ is an isomorphism. By (the proof
of) lemma \[lemma-A5\], there is an isomorphism
$\tau: \sum({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}R) \rightarrow {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}\sum R,$
defined on generators by
$$\tau(a\otimes r, 0, \dots) = a \otimes (r,0,\dots), \quad \tau(0, a\otimes r, 0, \dots) = a \otimes (0,r,0,\dots), \dots, \; \text{ and }$$
$$\begin{aligned}
      \tau(a_1\otimes r_1, a_2\otimes r_2, \dots) 
      &= \tau((a_1\otimes r_1, 0, \dots) + (0, a_2\otimes r_2, 0, \dots) + \cdots)\\
      &= \tau(a_1\otimes r_1, 0, \dots) + \tau(0, a_2\otimes r_2, 0, \dots) + \cdots\\
      &= a_1\otimes (r_1, 0, \dots) + a_2\otimes (0,r_2, 0, \dots) + \cdots.
    \end{aligned}$$ (The sum has finitely many non-zero terms, since
$\{a_i\}$ is non-zero for finitely many indices $i\in I$.)

Consider the following diagram of $R$-module homomorphisms:
$$\label{eq:CD2}
    \begin{CD}
      \sum A @>{\sigma}>> \sum ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}R) @>{\tau}>> {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}\sum R \\
      @V{\Phi}VV  @. @VV{\varphi \otimes 1_{\sum R}}V \\
      \sum B @>{\bar{\sigma}}>> \sum ({\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}R) @>{\bar{\tau}}>> {\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}\sum R
    \end{CD}$$ where $\bar{\sigma}$ and $\bar{\tau}$ are the same maps
as their bar-less counterparts, but defined on $\sum B$ and
$\sum ({\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}R)$, respectively. I claim that
diagram (\[eq:CD2\]) is commutative. Indeed, for any
$\{a_i\} \in \sum A$, we have[^2] $$\begin{aligned}
    \tau \,\sigma (\{a_i\} ) &= \tau ( \{a_i \otimes 1_R\}) 
    = \tau ((a_1\otimes 1_R, 0, \dots)+(0, a_2\otimes 1_R, 0, \dots)+\cdots)\\
    &=  a_1\otimes (1_R, 0, \dots)+ a_2\otimes (0, 1_R, 0, \dots)+\cdots.\\[4pt]
    \therefore \; (\varphi\otimes 1_{\sum R})\,\tau \, \sigma (\{a_i\}) 
    &= (\varphi\otimes 1_{\sum R})(a_1\otimes (1_R, 0, \dots)+ a_2\otimes (0, 1_R, 0, \dots)+\cdots)\\
    &= (\varphi\otimes 1_{\sum R})(a_1\otimes (1_R, 0, \dots))+ 
    (\varphi\otimes 1_{\sum R})(a_2\otimes (0, 1_R, 0, \dots)) +\cdots\\
    &=\varphi(a_1)\otimes (1_R, 0, \dots)+ \varphi(a_2)\otimes (0, 1_R, 0, \dots)+\cdots.
    \end{aligned}$$ In the other direction,
$\bar{\sigma}\,\Phi(\{a_i\}) = \bar{\sigma}(\{\varphi(a_i)\})
    = \{\varphi(a_i)\otimes 1_R\},$ so $$\begin{aligned}
    \bar{\tau} \,\bar{\sigma}\, \Phi(\{a_i\} ) 
    &= \bar{\tau} ( \{\varphi(a_i) \otimes 1_R\}) 
    = \tau ((\varphi(a_1)\otimes 1_R, 0, \dots)+(0, \varphi(a_2)\otimes 1_R, 0, \dots)+\cdots)\\
    &=\varphi(a_1)\otimes (1_R, 0, \dots)+ \varphi(a_2)\otimes (0, 1_R, 0, \dots)+\cdots,
    \end{aligned}$$ which proves that $\bar{\tau} \,\bar{\sigma}\, \Phi$
and $(\varphi\otimes 1_{\sum R})\,\tau \, \sigma$ agree on generators.
Therefore, diagram (\[eq:CD2\]) is commutative.

Now, $\bar{\sigma}$ and $\bar{\tau}$ are $R$-module isomorphisms, and
$\Phi$ is an $R$-module monomorphism. Therefore, by lemma \[lemma-A1\]
below, $\bar{\tau} \,\bar{\sigma}\, \Phi$ is an $R$-module monomorphism,
so commutativity of (\[eq:CD2\]) implies that
$\varphi \otimes 1_{\sum R} \, \tau \, \sigma$ is also an $R$-module
monomorphism. Finally, since $\sigma$ and $\tau$ are isomorphisms, so is
$\tau\, \sigma$. Whence, $\varphi \otimes 1_{\sum R}$ is injective, by
lemma \[lemma-A2\]. This which proves claim 2 and completes part (a) of
the problem.

: If $C$ is a projective $R$-module and $\varphi: A \rightarrow B$ is an
$R$-module monomorphism, then the natural map
$\varphi \otimes 1_C: {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C \rightarrow {\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}C$
is injective.

: Since $C$ is projective, there exists a free $R$-module $F$ and a
(projective) $R$-module $D$ such that $F = C\oplus D$
(lemma \[lemma-A6\]). Therefore,
$${\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}F = {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(C\oplus D) \cong ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C)\oplus ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}D) \; \text{ and } \;
    {\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}F = {\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}(C\oplus D) \cong ({\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}C)\oplus ({\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}D),$$
where the isomorphisms are given by lemma \[lemma-A5\].

By claim 2 above, the natural map
$\varphi \otimes 1_F : {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}F \rightarrow {\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}F$
is injective. Consider the diagram $$\label{eq:CD3}
    \begin{CD}
      {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C @>{\iota_1}>> ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C)\oplus({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}D) @>{\tau}>> {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(C\oplus D)\\
      @V{\varphi \otimes 1_C}VV  @. @VV{\varphi \otimes 1_F}V \\
      {\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}C @>{\iota_1}>> ({\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}C)\oplus({\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}D) @>{\bar{\tau}}>> {\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}(C\oplus D)\\
    \end{CD}$$ By (the proof of) lemma \[lemma-A5\] the map
$\tau: ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C)\oplus({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}D) \rightarrow {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(C\oplus D)$
given by
$\tau(a_1\otimes c, a_2\otimes d) = a_1\otimes (c,0) + a_2\otimes (0,d)$
is an $R$-module isomorphism. Given
$a\otimes c \in {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C$, then,
$$(\varphi \otimes 1_F)\, \tau\, \iota_1 (a\otimes c) =
    (\varphi \otimes 1_F)\, \tau (a\otimes c, 0) =
    (\varphi \otimes 1_F)(a\otimes (c, 0)) =
    \varphi(a)\otimes (c, 0).$$ Similarly, there exists
$\bar{\tau}: ({\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}C)\oplus({\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}D) \cong {\ensuremath{B\otimes_R}}(C\oplus D)$,
with
$\bar{\tau}(b_1\otimes c, b_2\otimes d) = b_1\otimes (c,0) + b_2\otimes (0,d)$,
and $$\bar{\tau}\, \iota_1\, (\varphi \otimes 1_C)(a\otimes c) =
    \bar{\tau}\, \iota_1\, (\varphi(a) \otimes c) =
    \bar{\tau}(\varphi(a) \otimes c, 0) =
    \varphi(a)\otimes (c, 0).$$ Therefore,
$(\varphi \otimes 1_F)\, \tau\, \iota_1$ and
$\bar{\tau}\, \iota_1\, (\varphi \otimes 1_C)$ agree on generators of
${\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C$, so diagram (\[eq:CD3\]) is commutative.

By lemma \[lemma-A1\], $(\varphi \otimes 1_F)\, \tau\, \iota_1$ is
injective, so, by commutativity,
$\bar{\tau}\, \iota_1\, (\varphi \otimes 1_C)$ is injective. It now
follows from lemma \[lemma-A3\] that $\varphi \otimes 1_C$ is injective,
which completes the proof of claim 3 and part (b) of the problem.

The following six lemmas are used in the answer to problem 3 given
above. The first is a standard theorem about projective modules, the
proof of which is not hard, and can be found, in Hungerford. The next
two lemmas (\[lemma-A4\] and \[lemma-A5\]) are also standard, but I
haven’t seen them proved in detail elsewhere and, as the solution given
above makes repeated use of the maps defined in proving these lemmas, I
include detailed proofs below. (I hope they are correct!) The last three
lemmas are trivial verifications.

\[lemma-A6\] Let $R$ be a ring. The following conditions on an
$R$-module $P$ are equivalent:

(i) $P$ is projective;

(ii) every short exact sequence of $R$-modules
    $0\rightarrow A \xrightarrow{f} B\xrightarrow{g} P \rightarrow 0$ is
    split exact (hence $B\cong A\oplus P$);

(iii) there is a free $R$-module $F$ and an $R$-module $N$ such that
    $F\cong N\oplus P$.

\[lemma-A4\] If $R$ is a commutative ring with $1_R$ and $A$ is a
unitary $R$-module, then ${\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}R \cong A$.

Define $\alpha: A\times R \rightarrow A$ by $\alpha(a,r) = ar$. Since
$\alpha$ is clearly bilinear, there exists a unique $R$-module
homomorphism $\bar{\alpha}: {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}R \rightarrow A$
such that $\bar{\alpha} \iota = \alpha$, where
$\iota : A\times R \rightarrow {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}R$ is the
canonical bilinear map. Define
$\beta: A\rightarrow {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}R$ by
$\beta(a) = a\otimes 1_R$. Then it is easy to verify that $\beta$ is an
$R$-module homomorphism and that
$$\beta \bar{\alpha}(a\otimes r) = \beta(ar) = ar{\ensuremath{\otimes 1_R}}= a\otimes r \quad (\forall a\in A) (\forall r\in R).$$
Therefore, $\beta\bar{\alpha}$ is the identity on generators of
${\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}R$. Also,
$\bar{\alpha} \beta(a) = \bar{\alpha}(a{\ensuremath{\otimes 1_R}}) = a1_R = a,$
so $\bar{\alpha} \beta = 1_A$. Therefore,
$\bar{\alpha}: {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}R \cong A$.

\[lemma-A5\] Let $R$ be a commutative ring with $1_R$ and let $A, B, C$
be unitary $R$-modules. Then
${\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(B\oplus C) \cong ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}B)\oplus ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C)$.

Recall that if $\varphi_1: A_1\rightarrow D$ and
$\varphi_2: A_2\rightarrow D$ are (group) homomorphisms, then there is a
unique homomorphism $\Phi :A_1 \oplus A_2 \rightarrow D$ such that
$\Phi \iota_i = \varphi_i\,(i=1, 2)$, where
$\iota_i : A_i \rightarrow A_1 \oplus A_2$ are the canonical injections.
In other words, $\exists ! \, \Phi \in \Hom(A_1 \oplus A_2,D)$ such that
the following diagram is commutative:
$$\xymatrix{A_1 \ar[dr]_{\varphi_1}\ar[r]^-{\iota_1} &A_1\oplus A_2
        \ar[d]^{\Phi}& A_2 \ar[l]_-{\iota_2} \ar[dl]^{\varphi_2}\\
        & D & }$$ We can apply this theorem to the Abelian group
$({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}B)\oplus ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C)$. Let
$\varphi_1: A\times B \rightarrow {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(B\oplus C)$
be given by $\varphi_1(a,b)=a\otimes (b,0),$ and let
$\varphi_2: A\times C \rightarrow {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(B\oplus C)$
be given by $\varphi_2(a,c)=a\otimes (0,c)$. It is easily verified that
$\varphi_i$ are bilinear and thus induce $R$-module homomorphisms
$\bar{\varphi_1}: {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}B \rightarrow {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(B\oplus C)$
and
$\bar{\varphi_2}: {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C \rightarrow {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(B\oplus C)$
such that $\bar{\varphi_i} \kappa_i = \varphi_i,$ where
$\kappa_1: A\times B \rightarrow {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}B$ and
$\kappa_2: A\times C \rightarrow {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C$ are the
canonical bilinear maps. Therefore, the two universal properties combine
to give a unique homomorphism
$\Phi: ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}B) \oplus ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C) \rightarrow {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(B\oplus C)$
such that the following diagram is commutative:
$$\xymatrix{{\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}B  \ar[dr]_{\bar{\varphi_1}} \ar[r]^-{\iota_1} & ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}B)\oplus ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C)
      \ar[d]^{\Phi}& {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C \ar[dl]^{\bar{\varphi_2}} \ar[l]_-{\iota_2} \\
A\times B \ar[u]^{\kappa_1} \ar[r]_-{\varphi_1} & {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(B\oplus C) & A\times B \ar[u]_{\kappa_2} \ar[l]^-{\varphi_2}}$$
Now, for all $a\in A$ and $b\in B$,
$\iota_1(a\otimes b) = (a\otimes b, 0)$ and
$\bar{\varphi_1}(a\otimes b) = \bar{\varphi_1}\kappa_1(a, b) = \varphi_1(a,b) = a\otimes(b,0)$,
so, $\Phi(a\otimes b, 0) = a\otimes (b,0)$. Similarly,
$\Phi(0, a\otimes c) = a\otimes (0,c),$ for all $a\in A$ and $c\in C$.
Therefore,
$$\Phi(a\otimes b, a'\otimes c) = \Phi(a\otimes b,0)+ \Phi(0, a'\otimes c) = a\otimes (b,0) + a'\otimes (0,c) \quad (\forall a, a' \in A, b\in B, c\in C).$$

Next, define
$\psi: A\times (B\oplus C) \rightarrow ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}B) \oplus ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C)$
by $\psi(a, (b,c)) = (a\otimes b, a\otimes c)$. Again, $\psi$ is
bilinear, so there is a unique
$\Psi: {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(B\oplus C) \rightarrow (B\oplus C) \rightarrow ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}B) \oplus ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C)$
such that $\Psi \kappa = \psi$ where
$\kappa: A\times (B\oplus C) \rightarrow {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(B\oplus C)$
is canonical. To complete the proof, we check that $\Psi \Phi$ and
$\Phi \Psi$ given the appropriate identity maps:
$$\Psi \Phi (a\otimes b, 0) = \Psi (a\otimes (b, 0)) = (a\otimes b, a\otimes 0) = (a\otimes b, 0), \text{ and }$$
$$\Psi \Phi (0,a\otimes c) = \Psi (a\otimes (0,c)) = (a\otimes 0, a\otimes c) = (0, a\otimes c).$$
Thus, $\Psi \Phi$ is the identity on generators of
$({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}B) \oplus ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C)$, so
$\Psi \Phi = 1_{({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}B) \oplus ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C)}$.
Finally,
$$\Phi \Psi (a\otimes (b, c)) = \Phi (a\otimes b, a\otimes c) = \Phi( (a\otimes b, 0) +(0, a\otimes c))= a\otimes (b, 0) +a\otimes (0,c)=  a\otimes (b, c).$$
Thus $\Phi \Psi$ is the identity on generators of
${\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(B\oplus C),$ so
$\Phi \Psi = 1_{{\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(B\oplus C)}$. This proves that
$\Phi: ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}B) \oplus ({\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}C) \cong {\ensuremath{A\otimes_R}}(B\oplus C)$.

\[lemma-A1\] If $h\in \HomR(A,B),\, g\in \HomR(B,C),$ and
$f\in \HomR(C,D)$ are injective, then $f g h \in \HomR(A, D)$ is
injective.

$f g h(a) = 0 \Rightarrow g h (a) = 0$ (since $f$ is injective)
$\Rightarrow h (a) = 0$ (since $g$ is injective) $\Rightarrow a = 0$
(since $h$ is injective).

\[lemma-A2\] If $g\in \HomR(A,B),\, f\in \HomR(B,C),$ if $g$ is
surjective, and if $f g$ is injective, then $f$ is injective.

Suppose $f(b) = 0$. Since $g$ is surjective, there is an $a\in A$ such
that $g(a) = b$. Then $fg(a) = f(b) = 0,$ which implies $a=0,$ since
$f g$ is injective. Therefore, $b = g(a) = g(0) = 0$ since $g$ is a
homomorphism.

\[lemma-A3\] If $g\in \HomR(A,B),\, f\in \HomR(B,C),$ and if $f g$ is
injective, then $g$ is injective.

$\ker g = \{a\in A: g(a) = 0\} \subseteq \{a\in A: f g(a) = 0\} = \ker fg = \{0\}$.
The set containment holds since $f$ is a homomorphism, so $f(0)=0$.

[^1]: Although this may seem trivial, and to some extent it *is*
    trivial, there is something to verify here, since we could have
    $(a,a')\in A$, $(b,b')\in A$, so that $(a,b')\in
                A_1\times A_2$, and yet $(a,b')\notin A$. That is, in
    general, $A$ need not be equal to the product of all first and
    second coordinates of elements of $A$. (Consider, for example, the
    diagonal $\{(0,0), (1,1), (2,2)\},$ which cannot be written as
    $A_1 \times A_2$.)

[^2]: Again, the sums have finitely many non-zero terms, since $\{a_i\}$
    is non-zero for finitely many indices $i\in I$. The same comment
    applies to the sums in the following two sets of equations.
